Refine Security Considerations (#370)
ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture: draft-ietf-scitt-architecture.md

# Security Considerations

Unless advertised in the Transparency Service Registration Policy, the Relying Party cannot assume that the ordering of Signed Statements in the Verifiable Data Structure matches the ordering of their issuance.
Issuers can provide false statements either intentionally or unintentionally, registering their statements only prevents them from hiding when they have made statements.

> Issuers and Transparency Services MUST:
> - carefully protect their private signing keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Issuers and Transparency Services MUST:

- carefully protect their private signing keys.
```

# Security Considerations

Unless advertised in the Transparency Service Registration Policy, the Relying Party cannot assume that the ordering of Signed Statements in the Verifiable Data Structure matches the ordering of their issuance.
Issuers can provide false statements either intentionally or unintentionally, registering their statements only prevents them from hiding when they have made statements.

Issuers and Transparency Services MUST:

- carefully protect their private signing keys.
- avoid using keys for more than one purpose.

> - use a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) for cryptographic operations where possible.

Reviewer: this section says "MUST", then says "where possible" which is conflicted

The third guarantee is achieved by the combination of both of these acts.

## Ordering of Signed Statements

Statements are signed prior to submitting to a SCITT Transparency service.
Unless advertised in the Transparency Service Registration Policy, the Relying Party cannot assume that the ordering of Signed Statements in the Verifiable Data Structure matches the ordering of their issuance.

## Accuracy of Statements

Issuers can make false Statements either intentionally or unintentionally.
Registering Statements proves Issuers made a Statement, which may be amended with a new Signed Statement with the same subject in the cwt_claims protected header.
Other Issuers may make new Statements to reflect new or corrected information.
Relying Parties may choose to include or exclude Statements from Issuers to determine the accuracy of a collection of Statements.

## Key Management

Issuers and Transparency Services MUST:

- carefully protect their private signing keys
- avoid using keys for more than one purpose
- rotate their keys in well-defined cryptoperiods, see {{KEY-MANAGEMENT}}

Issuers and Transparency Services SHOULD:

> - use a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) for cryptographic operations.

Reviewer 2: It’s a reference to the scitt-ccf-ledger implementation, which enforces its trust boundary that way. But you are right that it’s not the only way to do it, so it can either be kept as an example or removed for brevity.

## Transparency Service Operational Considerations

Issuers and Transparency Services SHOULD:

> - protect against malicious or vulnerable replicas by replicating with a consensus algorithm, such as Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance {{PBFT}}.

Reviewer 3: Why have we added back in specifics on replication, and in particular consensus algorithms ? There is no problem with vulnerable replicas provided an effective use of consistency proofs is used to ensure no split view.

Reviewer 2: I don’t think these have been added back, they have been floating around for a while. There is no PBFT implementation, this text is not helpful for interoperability or for implementers.

Separately, I think there is value in hardening the TS, but I am sure that’s not controversial :)

1. Statement provenance and history can be independently and consistently audited
1. Issuers can efficiently prove that their Statement is logged by a Transparency Service

The first guarantee is achieved by requiring Issuers to sign their Statements and associated metadata using a distributed public key infrastructure.
The second guarantee is achieved by committing the Signed Statement to a Verifiable Data Structure.
The third guarantee is achieved by the combination of both of these acts.

## Threat Model

This section provides a generic threat model for SCITT, describing its residual security properties when some of its actors (Issuers, Transparency Services, and Auditors) are corrupt or compromised.

This threat model may need to be refined to account for specific supply chain use cases.

SCITT primarily supports checking of Signed Statement authenticity, both from the Issuer (authentication) and from the Transparency Service (transparency).
These guarantees are meant to hold for extensive periods of time, possibly decades.
Issuers and Transparency Services can both be compromised, which should be addressed with redundant and independent implementations.

> It can never be assumed that some Issuers and some Transparency Services will not be corrupt.

Reviewer 3: Why are we comfortable removing this line ?

Reviewer: This was considered duplicative text from line [917](https://github.com/ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture/pull/370/files#diff-585fb424519b79cf000445f3425fa56d328cbaca5d2a622740ddc4e5ca91dbe1R917)

Relying parties are able to verify the issuer signature on signed statements, the transparency service signature on receipts, and the inclusion proof on receipts.

Similarly, providing strong residual guarantees against faulty/corrupt Transparency Services is a SCITT design goal.
Preventing a Transparency Service from registering Signed Statements that do not meet its stated Registration Policy, or to issue Receipts that are not consistent with their Verifiable Data Structure is not possible.
In contrast, Transparency Services can be held accountable and blamed by an Auditor that replays the Sequence of Signed Statements captured in their Verifiable Data Structure to confirm that a contested Receipt is valid and was correctly registered.

Transparency Services can provide consistency proofs allowing Auditors to check if a set of Receipts were issued from a single Verifiable Data Structure, without replaying individual Signed Statements.

Certain Verifiable Data Structures enable a Transparency Service to prove the properties of its Statement Sequence.

> For example, proving a specific Signed Statement is included in the sequence, or that the sequence has only been extended (Append-only property) since the last time such a proof was created.

Reviewer 3: Is 969 removed because we have that somewhere else ? The property that a sequence, which may not be the whole log, is complete is important. Are we saying  the scope of verifiability in scitt doesn't include this ?

- provide additional authenticity assurances about its secure implementation and operation, enabling remote attestation of the hardware platforms and/or software Trusted Computing Bases (TCB) that run the Transparency Service.

## Threat Model

This section provides a generic threat model for SCITT, describing its residual security properties when some of its actors (Issuers, Transparency Services, and Auditors) are corrupt or compromised.
This threat model may need to be refined to account for specific supply chain use cases.

SCITT primarily supports checking of Signed Statement authenticity, both from the Issuer (authentication) and from the Transparency Service (transparency).
These guarantees are meant to hold for extensive periods of time, possibly decades.
Issuers and Transparency Services can both be compromised, which should be addressed with redundant and independent implementations.

Relying parties are able to verify the issuer signature on signed statements, the transparency service signature on receipts, and the inclusion proof on receipts.

> Issuers cannot be stopped from producing Signed Statements including false assertions in their Statement payload (either by mistake or by corruption), but these Issuers can made accountable by ensuring their Signed Statements are systematically registered at a Transparency Service.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Registering Statements proves Issuers made a Statement, which may be amended with a new Signed Statement with the same subject in the cwt_claims protected header.
Other Issuers may make new Statements to reflect new or corrected information.
Relying Parties may choose to include or exclude Statements from Issuers to determine the accuracy of a collection of Statements.

## Key Management

Issuers and Transparency Services MUST:

- carefully protect their private signing keys
- avoid using keys for more than one purpose
- rotate their keys in well-defined cryptoperiods, see {{KEY-MANAGEMENT}}

Issuers and Transparency Services SHOULD:

- use a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) for cryptographic operations.

## Transparency Service Operational Considerations

Issuers and Transparency Services SHOULD:

- protect against malicious or vulnerable replicas by replicating with a consensus algorithm, such as Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance {{PBFT}}.
- provide additional authenticity assurances about its secure implementation and operation, enabling remote attestation of the hardware platforms and/or software Trusted Computing Bases (TCB) that run the Transparency Service.

> **Editors Note**: Not possible to do the following PKIX rules.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> **Editors Note**: Not possible to do the following PKIX rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> > Now that we dropped the cert chain before registration, when it is present in unprotected header, we suggest to remove the following text.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> > Now that we dropped the cert chain before registration, when it is present in unprotected header, we suggest to remove the following text.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

see below

> Auditors MUST perform certification path validation in accordance with PKIX rules specified in {{-PKIX}}.
> Auditors MUST verify that certification paths chain to one or more trust anchors (often represented as root certificates).

Author: ```suggestion
```

# Security Considerations

SCITT provides the following security guarantees:

1. Statements made by Issuers about supply chain Artifacts are identifiable and can be authenticated
1. Statement provenance and history can be independently and consistently audited
1. Issuers can efficiently prove that their Statement is logged by a Transparency Service

The first guarantee is achieved by requiring Issuers to sign their Statements and associated metadata.

> The second guarantee is achieved by proving a Signed Statement is present in a Verifiable Data Structure.

Author: ```suggestion
The second guarantee is achieved by issuing Receipts.
```

Registering Statements proves Issuers made a Statement, which may be amended with a new Signed Statement with the same subject in the cwt_claims protected header.
Other Issuers may make new Statements to reflect new or corrected information.
Relying Parties may choose to include or exclude Statements from Issuers to determine the accuracy of a collection of Statements.

## Key Management

Issuers and Transparency Services MUST:

- carefully protect their private signing keys
- avoid using keys for more than one purpose
- rotate their keys in well-defined cryptoperiods, see {{KEY-MANAGEMENT}}

Issuers and Transparency Services SHOULD:

- use a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) for cryptographic operations.

## Transparency Service Operational Considerations

Issuers and Transparency Services SHOULD:

- protect against malicious or vulnerable replicas by replicating with a consensus algorithm, such as Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance {{PBFT}}.
- provide additional authenticity assurances about its secure implementation and operation, enabling remote attestation of the hardware platforms and/or software Trusted Computing Bases (TCB) that run the Transparency Service.

> Additional authenticity assurances, such as {{-RATS}} Conceptual Messages, MUST be registered in the Verifiable Data Structure and MUST always be exposed by the Transparency Services' APIs.
> The respective Evidence can show, for example, the binding of the hardware platform to the software that runs the Transparency Service, the long-term public key of the service, or the key used by the replica for signing Receipts.
> The respective Attestation Result, for example, can show that the remote attestation Evidence was appraised by a Relying Party and complies with well-known Reference Values and Endorsements.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

### Verifiable Data Structure

> See {{-RECEIPTS}} for the generic security considerations that apply to Verifiable Data Structure and Receipts.
> The security considerations for specific verifiable data structures are out of scope for this document.

Reviewer: Suggest flipping the order:
```suggestion
The security considerations for specific verifiable data structures are out of scope for this document.
See {{-RECEIPTS}} for the generic security considerations that apply to Verifiable Data Structure and Receipts.
```

### Verifiable Data Structure

The security considerations for specific verifiable data structures are out of scope for this document.
See {{-RECEIPTS}} for the generic security considerations that apply to Verifiable Data Structure and Receipts.

### Cryptographic Agility

> The SCITT Architecture supports cryptographic agility.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

This can go.

There are no mandatory to implement signing algorithms for Signed Statements or Receipts.

### Key Compromise

Revocation strategies for compromised keys are out of scope for this document.

> It is important for Issuers and Transparency Service to clearly communicate when keys are compromised, so that Signed Statements can be rejected by Transparency Services, and Receipts can be ignored by Relying Parties.

Author: ```suggestion
It is important for Issuers and Transparency Services to clearly communicate when keys are compromised, so that Signed Statements can be rejected by Transparency Services, and Receipts can be ignored by Relying Parties.
```

> It is important for Issuers and Transparency Services to clearly communicate when keys are compromised, so that Signed Statements can be rejected by Transparency Services, or Receipts can be ignored by Relying Parties.

Author: ```suggestion
It is important for Issuers and Transparency Services to clearly communicate when keys are compromised, so that Signed Statements can be rejected by Transparency Services or Receipts can be ignored by Relying Parties.
```
